Our text for discussion today here in Matthew 6 verse 33 contains two parts.
The first part is what we have to do.
It says, keep on then seeking first the kingdom and his righteousness.
The second part is what your hovered will do and all these other things will be added
to you.
We think carefully about these words, Jesus actually was educating his disciples to make
a dramatic change in their lifestyle.
What do we mean by that?
Well look at verse 31, he says, so never be anxious and say, what are we to eat, or what
are we to drink, or what are we to wear?
Did Jesus say never?
Yes, but those are the things we normally do.
We are anxious about our existence.
And Jesus recognizes that most people are that way.
He says in verse 32, for all these other things the nations are eagerly pursuing.
But then he says, your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
Here in this chapter Jesus outlines a number of very important principles that actually
change the way we look at life and the way we see our existence in relationship to Jehovah
God.
He puts service to Jehovah in the first place, regardless of our circumstances.
Let us have a look at two of these principles.
The one is here in Matthew 6 verse 24, he says, no one can slave for two masters.
For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will stick to the one and despise
the other.
You cannot slave for God and for riches.
It is just not possible.
Some have tried, but they failed.
Right and approach Jesus and said to him, I will give you riches.
I will give you all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
Of course Jesus refused.
Why?
Because he knew there was a price attached to it.
What is the price?
Worship.
The vided worship, which is impossible.
He knew it is impossible to worship both Jehovah and riches.
In verse 21, Jesus says, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
The second principle is in verse 25, and this account, I say to you, stop being anxious
about your lives as to what you will eat or what you will drink or about your bodies as
to what you will wear.
And here is the principle, does not life mean more than food and the body more than clothing.
You can have a storehouse full of food.
If you don't have life, you cannot eat it.
You can have a warehouse full of clothes, but if there is no body, you cannot wear it.
Jesus illustrated this principle beautifully in Luke.
Turn to Luke, chapter 12, and from verse 16, with that he told him an illustration saying,
the land of a rich man produced well.
So he began reasoning within himself, what should I do now that I have nowhere to gather
my crops?
Then he said, I'll do this.
I'll tear down my storehouses and build bigger ones.
And there I will gather all my grain and all my goods.
And I will say to myself, you have many good things stored up for many years.
Take it easy, eat, drink, enjoy yourself.
But God said to him, an unreasonable one.
This night they are demanding your life from you, who then is to have the things you
stored up.
So it goes with a man who stores up treasurer for himself, but is not rich toward God.
Jesus didn't say this man was dishonest, or that he never thought about God.
The mistake the man made was his priorities were wrong.
He focused primarily on amassing wealth.
He did not do what it says in verse 21.
He did not store up treasurer for himself.
He stored up treasurer for himself, but did not store up treasurer with God in heaven.
He was not rich toward God.
And that is the key element, isn't it?
Our service to Jehovah God, our life for Jehovah, that is the key element.
And as Jesus says in verse 15, the second part of verse 15, because even when a person
has an abundance, his life does not result from the things he possesses.
So these are the two very important principles we've covered.
First of all, make our service to God the priority and not amassing wealth.
And the second one, keep on then seeking first the kingdom and God's righteousness.
And all these other things will be added to you.
We do not know precisely when the end will come, but we want to keep on seeking first the
kingdom.
Rather than putting our trust in the securities of this world, we want to put our trust
in our heavenly Father.
Jehovah gives everything.
He gives more than what we need.
When it leases as 5 verse 19, it summarizes this whole principle.
It establishes the truth, the reality of the matter.
It says it leases as 5 verse 19.
Also, when the true God gives a man riches and material possessions, along with the
ability to enjoy them, he should take his reward and rejoice in his hard work.
This is the gift of God.